[docs] troubleshooting guide (#2133)
huggingface/accelerate: docs/source/usage_guides/troubleshooting.md

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.
-->

# Troubleshooting guide

This guide aims to provide you the tools and knowledge required to navigate some common issues. However, 
as 🤗 Accelerate continuously evolves and the use cases and setups are diverse, you might encounter an issue not covered in this 
guide. If the suggestions listed in this guide do not cover your such situation, please refer to the final section of 
the guide, [Asking for Help](#ask-for-help), to learn where to find help with your specific issue.

## Logging

> When facing an error, logging can help narrows down where it is coming from. In a distributed setup with multiple processes, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When facing an error, logging can help narrow down where it is coming from. In a distributed setup with multiple processes, 
```

Author: Since the file moved under tutorials, couldn't apply the suggestions and resoved them in a separate commit

logging can be a challenge, but 🤗 Accelerate provides a utility that streamlines the logging process and ensures that 
logs are synchronized and managed effectively across the distributed setup. 

To troubleshoot an issue, use `accelerate.logging` instead of the standard Python `logging` module:

```diff
- import logging
+ from accelerate.logging import get_logger
- logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)
+ logger = get_logger(__name__)
```

To set the log level (`INFO`, `DEBUG`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `CRITICAL`), export it as the `ACCELERATE_LOG_LEVEL` environment,
or pass as `log_level` to `get_logger`:

```python
from accelerate.logging import get_logger

logger = get_logger(__name__, log_level="INFO")
```

By default, the log is called on main processes only. To call it on all processes, pass `main_process_only=False`.
If a log should be called on all processes and in order, also pass `in_order=True`.

## Hanging code and timeout errors

> If your code seems to be hanging for a significant amount time, a common cause is mismatched shapes of tensors on different 
> devices. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your code seems to be hanging for a significant amount time on a distributed setup, a common cause is mismatched shapes of tensors on different 
devices. 
```

> When running scripts in a distributed fashion, functions such as [`Accelerator.gather`] and [`Accelerator.reduce`] are 
> necessary to grab tensors across devices to perform operations on them. These (and other) functions rely on 
> `torch.distributed`, which requires that tensors have the **exact same shape** across all processes for it to work.
> When the tensor shapes don't match, you will experience handing code, and eventually hit a timeout exception. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running scripts in a distributed fashion, functions such as [`Accelerator.gather`] and [`Accelerator.reduce`] are 
necessary to grab tensors across devices to perform operations on them collectively. These (and other) functions rely on 
`torch.distributed` performing a `gather` operation, which requires that tensors have the **exact same shape** across all processes.
When the tensor shapes don't match, you will experience handing code, and eventually hit a timeout exception. 
```

Author: Fixed in 087fa0aa7a1b42562cac9b959f432ec3fbb86d57

If you suspect this to be the case, use Accelerate's operational debug mode to immediately catch the issue. 

### Accelerate's operational debug mode

The recommended way to enable Accelerate's operational debug mode is during `accelerate config` setup. 
Alternative ways to enable debug mode are: 

* From the CLI: 

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

Author: Fixed in 087fa0aa7a1b42562cac9b959f432ec3fbb86d57

accelerate launch --debug {my_script.py} --arg1 --arg2
```

* As an environmental variable (which avoids the need for `accelerate launch`):

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

Author: Fixed in 087fa0aa7a1b42562cac9b959f432ec3fbb86d57

> ACCELERATE_DEBUG_MODE="1" accelerate launch {my_script.py} --arg1 --arg2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACCELERATE_DEBUG_MODE="1" torchrun {my_script.py} --arg1 --arg2
```

```

* Manually changing the `config.yaml` file:

```diff
 compute_environment: LOCAL_MACHINE
+debug: true
```

Once you enable the debug mode, you should get a similar traceback that points to the tensor shape mismatch issue:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

Author: Fixed in 087fa0aa7a1b42562cac9b959f432ec3fbb86d57

> Traceback (most recent call last):
>   File "/home/zach_mueller_huggingface_co/test.py", line 18, in <module>
>     main()
>   File "/home/zach_mueller_huggingface_co/test.py", line 15, in main
>         main()broadcast_tensor = broadcast(tensor)
>   File "/home/zach_mueller_huggingface_co/accelerate/src/accelerate/utils/operations.py", line 303, in wrapper
>     broadcast_tensor = broadcast(tensor)
> accelerate.utils.operations.DistributedOperationException: Cannot apply desired operation due to shape mismatches. All shapes across devices must be valid.
> 
> Operation: `accelerate.utils.operations.broadcast`
> Input shapes:
>   - Process 0: [1, 5]
>   - Process 1: [1, 2, 5]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/home/zach_mueller_huggingface_co/test.py", line 18, in <module>
    main()
  File "/home/zach_mueller_huggingface_co/test.py", line 15, in main
    broadcast_tensor = broadcast(tensor)
  File "/home/zach_mueller_huggingface_co/accelerate/src/accelerate/utils/operations.py", line 303, in wrapper
accelerate.utils.operations.DistributedOperationException: 

Cannot apply desired operation due to shape mismatches. All shapes across devices must be valid.

Operation: `accelerate.utils.operations.broadcast`
Input shapes:
  - Process 0: [1, 5]
  - Process 1: [1, 2, 5]
```

Just to clean it up a bit for the doc :)

Author: Fixed in 087fa0aa7a1b42562cac9b959f432ec3fbb86d57

```

## CUDA out of memory

One of the most frustrating errors when it comes to running training scripts is hitting "CUDA Out-of-Memory", 
as the entire script needs to be restarted, progress is lost, and typically a developer would want to simply
start their script and let it run.

`Accelerate` provides a utility heavily based on [toma](https://github.com/BlackHC/toma) to give this capability.

### find_executable_batch_size

This algorithm operates with exponential decay, decreasing the batch size in half after each failed run on some 
training script. To use it, restructure your training function to include an inner function that includes this wrapper, 
and build your dataloaders inside it. At a minimum, this could look like 4 new lines of code. 

> > Note: The inner function *must* take in the batch size as the first parameter, but we do not pass one to it when called. The wrapper handles this for us

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Tip warning={true}>

    The inner function *must* take in the batch size as the first parameter, but we do not pass one to it when called. The wrapper handles this for us

</Tip>
```

        lr_scheduler = get_scheduler(
            optimizer, 
            num_training_steps=len(train_dataloader)*num_epochs
        )
        model, optimizer, train_dataloader, eval_dataloader, lr_scheduler = accelerator.prepare(
            model, optimizer, train_dataloader, eval_dataloader, lr_scheduler
        )
        train(model, optimizer, train_dataloader, lr_scheduler)
        validate(model, eval_dataloader)
+   inner_training_loop()
```

To find out more, check the documentation [here](../package_reference/utilities#accelerate.find_executable_batch_size).

## Non-reproducible results between device setups

If you have changed the device setup and are observing different model performance, this is likely due to the fact that 
you have not updated your script when moving from one setup to another. The same script with the same batch size across TPU, 
multi-GPU, and single-GPU with Accelerate will have different results. To make sure you can reproduce the results between 
the setups, make sure to use the same seed, adjust the batch seed accordingly, consider scaling the learning rate. 

> For more details, refer to the [Comparing performance between different device setups](../concept_guides/performance) guide.

Reviewer: I think I'd prefer if we had a quick note clarifying it more here. E.g. something like on a single GPU with a bs of 16, two GPUs should use two bs of 8 for comparisons, etc. Let's give them a direct solution, then send them to the full performance guide for more info.

Author: Addressed in 49386d9e12bf14477d2c1fc39b92d494c23d368c

## Performance issues on different GPUs

> If your milt-GPU setup consists of different GPUs, you may hit some limitations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your multi-GPU setup consists of different GPUs, you may hit some limitations:
```

Author: Fixed in 087fa0aa7a1b42562cac9b959f432ec3fbb86d57
